reefs are huge limestone structures
created by the millions of tiny corals
that live on them they are hotspots of
biodiversity bored
if this last remaining reef and gala
Bacchus can't be saved a vital part of
the marine ecosystem will be lost
forever
as soon as the team switches on their
blue light
yes that's good that's good
a magical world open zone before that
eyes
oh look at that
[Music]
understanding how and why corals bio
Flores is a new frontier for science
unlocking their secrets will help
scientists to understand how reefs are
threatened
and hope to protect them
so beautiful they really are bright
green fluorescence like this indicates
that the coral is healthy
scientists think they glow this color to
protect themselves from sun's UV rays
like a kind of sunscreen
the level of green fluorescence suggests
the reef is doing well
but the team is also detecting other
colors
blue patches can indicate coral
bleaching damage from rising water
temperatures and red can mean the coral
is dead and covered by bacteria
corals are the most sensitive indicators
of ocean health and for now the last
reef in Galapagus seems to be enduring
but with some signs of damage and with
sea temperatures predicted to rise in
the future the scientists will be
monitoring this precious site very
closely
you